ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz


Graduation Requirements: Students normally take five or six courses each year. At least four of these courses must be from the liberal arts disciplines of English, Mathematics, Science, History, and Modern & Classical language. Five is strongly recommended. Each year, students meet with their advisors to choose courses for the following academic year. Students will receive recommendations from classroom teachers for suggestions about the best fit course (s) to take the following year. Students also choose electives and other academic courses not required for graduation. Freshman course placements are determined by criteria set by respective divisions. Course verification sheets are sent home each spring to ensure accuracy. The master schedule is created based on student selection of courses.

TO GRADUATE STUDENTS MUST TAKE:

4 years of English
3 years of Math (Must complete at least Algebra 2)
3 years of History
2 Lab Sciences of one life science and one physical life science
2 years of one non-English language (International students already fluent are not required to take this)
1.5 years of Fine Arts (1 year for transfer student)
MUST TAKE HEALTH WELLNESS AND COMMUNITY ALL FOUR YEARS

Required Freshman Courses: Digital Media Literacy (Once a cycle for 1 semester)

Computer Science Courses: 

AP Computer Science Principles (Prerequisite: None)
AP Computer Science A (Prerequisite: None, though some programming experience is recommended)
Computer Programming: Dart and Flutter (Prerequisite: None)
Computer Programming: React Native and Expo (Prerequisite: None) 

English Courses (Journalism Does NOT count towards graduation requirements):
Proficient in english
English 9 (Required to take as a Freshmen - no exceptions)
English 10 or Journalism 1 for Sophomores
English 11 or AP Language and Composition (Prerequisite: English 10 and Department approval) or Journalism 2 (If student took Journalism 1) for juniors
Needs work in english
ELL 9 and/or 10
Senior Classes (Year long)
AP Literature and Compositions (Prerequisite: An A on the AP Language and Composition semester one final exam or departmental approval through the petition process.
Multiliteracies (Prerequisite: None)
Advanced Journalism (Prerequisite: Journalism 1 and 2)
Senior Classes (Semester Long)
Creative Writing & the Writer’s Workshop (Prerequisite for Seniors: None, Prerequisite for Sophomores and Juniors: Department Approval)
Mystery, Murder, & Mayhem in Detective Fiction (Prerequisite: None)
Debate (Prerequisite for Seniors: None, Prerequisite for Sophomores and Juniors: Department Approval)
Cuisine, Culture, & Community in Asian Literature (Prerequisite: None)
Global Perspectives: Short Stories & The Human Experience (Prerequisite for Seniors: None, Prerequisite for Sophomores and Juniors: Department Approval)
Race, Gender, & Identity Through Shakespeare (Prerequisite: None)
Immigration & Integration in Asian Literature (Prerequisite: None)
Get a Clue: True Crime Stories (Prerequisite: None)

History and Social Sciences
World History 1 for Freshmen (mandatory)
World History 2 or AP World History (Prerequisite: Departmental approval. Students who are not recommended may petition to the Department Chair.) for sophomores
US History or AP US History (Prerequisite: World History 2 or AP World History and departmental approval. Students who are not recommended may petition to the Department Chair.) for juniors
Electives (Semester Long - for juniors and seniors)
A History of Human Rights in the Americas (Prerequisite: Juniors and seniors. Note: Seniors will be given priority if this course reaches capacity.)
Introductory Economics (Prerequisite: Juniors and seniors. Note: Seniors will be given priority if this course reaches capacity.)
Sports in America: Culture & History (Prerequisite: Juniors and seniors. Note: Seniors will be given priority if this course reaches capacity.)
Entrepreneurship (Prerequisite: Juniors and seniors. Note: Seniors will be given priority if this course reaches capacity.)
A History of Global Human Rights (Prerequisite: Juniors and seniors. Note: Seniors will be given priority if this course reaches capacity.)
Sports in America: Economics & Politics (Prerequisite: Juniors and seniors. Note: Seniors will be given priority if this course reaches capacity.)
Electives (Year Long - for juniors and seniors)
AP Economics (Prerequisite: Juniors and seniors. Note: Seniors will be given priority if this course reaches capacity.)
AP United States & Comparative Government and Politics (Prerequisite: Juniors and seniors. Note: Seniors will be given priority if this course reaches capacity.)

Math (All placement for freshmen based on prior math. Freshmen can take AP Precalculus at most)

Algebra 1 to Geometry to Algebra 2 to Precalculus to AP Calculus AB
Algebra 1 to Geometry to Conceptual Algebra 2 to Conceptual Precalculus to Calculus 
Algebra 1 to Adv. Geometry to Adv. Algebra 2 to AP Precalculus to AP Calculus BC 
Electives (Year long)
AP Statistics (Prerequisite: Algebra 2)
Electives (Semester long)
Discrete Math: Fundamentals (Prerequisite: Conceptual Algebra 2 or Algebra 2)
Linear Algebra (Post-AP) (Prerequisite: Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors. Precalculus and departmental approval
Discrete Math: Applications (Prerequisite: Conceptual Algebra 2 or Algebra 2)
Introduction to Data Science (Prerequisite: None)
Multivariable Calculus (Post-AP) (Prerequisite: Calculus and department approval.)

Languages: Spanish, Chinese, French, Latin

Science (Freshmen class based on middle school teacher recommendation)
Physics 1 (Typical Freshman Class. Not mandatory though)
Chemistry 1 or Biology 1 or Advanced Chemistry or Advanced biology (Typical Sophomore or junior class. Open to freshmen however.)
Electives (Year long)
Advanced Physics (Prerequisite: B or higher in Algebra II or B- or above in previous higher level math course.)
AP Physics C Mechanics (Prerequisite: AP Calculus AB or BC (including concurrent enrollment).
AP Physics C Electricity & Magnetism (Prerequisite: AP Physics C Mechanics and AP Calculus AB or BC.)
AP Chemistry (Prerequisite: A in Chemistry 1 or B+ in Advanced Chemistry.)
AP Biology (Prerequisite:Grade of A in Biology 1 and departmental approval, Grade of B+ or higher in Advanced Biology, or department approval.)
Anatomy & Physiology (Prerequisite: Biology)
Biology of Human Disease for sophomores juniors and seniors
Principles of Engineering (Prerequisite: B+ or higher in Precalculus and Physics. Open to juniors with departmental approval and all seniors)
Biochemistry Research 1 (Prerequisite: Chemistry and juniors and seniors)
Biochemistry Research 2 (Prerequisite: Biochemistry Research 1)
Bioengineering Research & Design (Prerequisite: Advanced or AP Biology)
AP Environmental Science (Prerequisite: One Year of Life Science AND Physical Science, Algebra II. Concurrent enrollment in Biology is possible for seniors with departmental approval.)
AP Psychology (Prerequisite: Seniors ONLY)
Electives (Semester long)
Experimental Psychology: Research & Design for sophomores juniors and seniors.
Introduction to Natural Disasters (Prerequisite: Two years of lab science)
